07 August Internal Meeting Minutes (#52)
w3c/wot-cg: Minutes/2023/2023_08_07-minutes.md

Meeting Minutes of 07 August 2023
===

:date: **Date:** 07 August 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Fady Salama
- Justus Fries
- Idil Sezgin

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege Korkan

### Tutorial Series

> Ege Korkan: we can talk about the tutorial series and then on the TPAC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: we can talk about the tutorial series at TPAC
```

Author: actually, the first one is the correct intention. However, there is a small typo that I will provide separately.

```suggestion
Ege Korkan: we can talk about the tutorial series and then about the TPAC
```

Ege Korkan: I have sent slides from the what is wot meetup, did you get them?

Justus Fries: yes it worked

Ege Korkan: Our original idea was to revamp the lecture series on the web of things.

> Ege Korkan: but that was very long, so we had to change the format and where we make it public.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: but that was very long, so we had to change the format and we make it public.
```

> Ege Korkan: the storyline is based on the what you need to know in general about the web of things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: the storyline is based on what you need to know in general about the web of things.
```

Ege Korkan: We should also talk about semantic technologies which we were not doing at all.

Ege Korkan: Preliminaries and then go into the web of things.

Ege Korkan: We are putting some guidelines on things like the colors and like how to do this kind of animations.

Ege Korkan: in essence we sketch in a very quick PowerPoint.

> Ege Korkan: then we found this and voice over generator. You can basically give the text and like choose even emotions and so on. realistic and audio output, but that you can easily work with the text and like generate the the video and adjust the timing accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: then we found this voiceover generator. You can basically give the text and choose even emotions and so on. It is realistic and has a good audio output, but that you can easily work with the text like generating the the video and adjusting the timing accordingly.
```

> Ege Korkan: that's sort of workflow and we are recently starting on a like a full website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: that's sort of workflow and we are recently starting on a full website.
```

> Ege Korkan: So that the the tutorial content can be read at the same time so that it's not just the the videos you have to watch like by stopping what you're doing  and so on and so forth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: So that the tutorial content can be read and viewed at the same time. It's not just the the videos you have to watch and stopping the video to understand what you are doing.
```

Ege Korkan: you said you  have interest on semantic web parts or maybe some other things?

> Ege Korkan: I think we are also new on this kind of workflows and like since it's not like code reviews or it's not simple text files to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: I think we are also new to this kind of workflow and since it's not like code reviews or it's not simple text files to work.
```

> Justus Fries: But the the mode of operation is still over GitHub, right?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Justus Fries: But the mode of operation is still over GitHub, right?
```

> Ege Korkan: Yes. So the the files will be all there, like all the PowerPoint files, text for the audio and final video.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: Yes. So the files will be all there, like all the PowerPoint files, text for the audio, and final video.
```

Ege Korkan: the website will be also on GitHub.

Ege Korkan: We also talked with some people from W3C and it might be possible to push it to a W3C developer's page and which is generally more HTML, CSS kind of tutorials together with edX.

Ege Korkan: you can certificate of attendance.

Justus Fries: so it is about showing trust of attendance?

Cristiano Aguzzi: yes, I am sending a link.

> Ege Korkan: So for that we need to generate more content first to to show how it really looks like and something that can be certified because the single video or tutorial lighting at the moment would be too short.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: So for that, we need to generate more content first to show how it really looks like and something that can be certified because the single video or tutorial lighting at the moment would be too short.
```

Justus Fries: ok

> Justus Fries: So and right now you have like what I saw on GitHub the the introduction right that does like the basic overview of what you can like do with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Justus Fries: So right now you have what I saw on GitHub the introduction that does the basic overview of what you can do with it.
```

Justus Fries: And so is there anything else that you have already finished or are you still working on? Like making it deeper?

Idil Sezgin: actually published first two videos in the GitHub if I'm not mistaken.

> Idil Sezgin: First one is introduction to this series. Basically like what you need to expect from the series.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Idil Sezgin: The first one is the introduction to this series. Basically what you need to expect from the series.
```

Idil Sezgin: Like what is web of things.

Idil Sezgin: we have 12 right now.

Idil Sezgin: So basically, for the first six one we explained JSON and JSON schema.

Idil Sezgin: Both in practice and the as a concept, and then we moved to the OSI layers and then we explain general generic web of things.

Idil Sezgin: I'm still working on the new videos.

Idil Sezgin: So for the website, I hope to have a first version of how it will look like by tpac.

Ege Korkan: So we can actually add more things to preliminary stuff like you mentioned and think of a way how we can like work together.

Ege Korkan: So you can provide the script or do the points and so on like what a voice over should generate.

Justus Fries: How deep does it go. I guess the closest technology wise is kind of the JSON schema tutorial.

> Ege Korkan: shows the slides

> Ege Korkan: And so like, it explains the concept like very basically and like the the simple types but I think we can also even go into like type generation like because we actually use it for an scripting API for type generation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: it explains the concept very basically and like the simple types but I think we can also even go into type generation like because we actually use it for scripting API for type generation
```

Ege Korkan: We need to talk about this combinations at the very end. There is the if then else on how we get a conditional validation.

> Justus Fries: Do you do that for all the parts that for all the topics?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Justus Fries: Do you do that for all the parts and for all the topics?
```

Ege Korkan: So the overall goal is to keep the videos short, which has multiple reasons.

Ege Korkan: One is so that people can watch small things.

> Ege Korkan: The other thing it's it makes easy to store it in GitHub since you don't need to then find like a Google Drive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: The other thing it's it makes it easy to store it in GitHub since you don't need to then find it on a Google Drive.
```

Justus Fries: ok right.

Justus Fries: So the the task then is to, I guess, create the PowerPoint of the flow is that I create the PowerPoints.

Justus Fries: I guess it's a script as well or.

Ege Korkan: yes

Ege Korkan: So currently the the script is written in the PowerPoint notes for us, but we can think of a different way, but in the end the script is.

> Ege Korkan: shows voiceover tool

> Ege Korkan: So once we put a text in here and and then from every text again like it just the pronunciation or like how we can do the pauses and it will generate the voice so that you can like correctly overlay and time according to the video.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: So once we put a text in here, it is just setting the pronunciation or how to do the pauses and it will generate the voice so that you can correctly overlay and time according to the video.
```

Justus Fries: I guess some kind of introduction to JSON LD would probably be the start and then maybe see from there.

Justus Fries: Probably only with certain ontologies or with a very specific example.

Justus Fries: I thought maybe like first even like what is an ontology in the 1st place.

Ege Korkan: If you were to have it in the JSON format, that's where JSON LD comes in.

Ege Korkan: And then like the context, what is the context? And so on.

Justus Fries: The tutorials are meant to be like technical, right?

Ege Korkan: Yes, some of them are a bit generic 

Fady Salama: The topic is so huge that I am, uh, we need to really think about how to do it.

Fady Salama: Uh, because it's because there are so many languages to describe ontologies, and JSON LD is just one of them.

Fady Salama: And then there are also like all these kind of things that you can have as well, like a schema for an ontology and so on.

Justus Fries: So I wouldn't really go into like the whole shapes stuff and maybe also not really go into owl itself and maybe just kind of say or use one ontology and say hey, this exists and not go into too much of the formal details.

> Fady Salama: I like because it's really underrepresented right now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fady Salama: I like it because it's really underrepresented right now.
```

> Justus Fries: This the idea to introduce the the technology and then say how the thing description uses it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Justus Fries: This is the idea, to introduce the technology and then say how the thing description uses it.
```

Fady Salama: So and the first couple of videos don't actually talk a lot about web of things at all.

Fady Salama: So you really focus on the technology itself, which may be redundant, but you need to understand to get to know the thing description.

Fady Salama: So we said we would like this and for people that already know this

Justus Fries: ok

Fady Salama: there can be a bridge between your general stuff and then the actual thing description.

> Ege Korkan: And we should do it for all of them, like even for JSON schema like where does it appear and then really show like, temperature value will being described

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ege Korkan: And we should do it for all of them, even for JSON schema where does it appear and then really show  temperature value will being described
```

### node-wot and RDF

Ege Korkan: So you also use node-wot for other stuff?

Justus Fries: yes. Sometimes we write our own stuff. Especially when RDF is involved.

Ege Korkan: for TDs?

Justus Fries: using RDF to serialize data, as content type.

> Cristiano Aguzzi: Well, you can actually extend it using your own uh library if you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cristiano Aguzzi: Well, you can actually extend it using your own library if you want.
```

Cristiano Aguzzi: You can define a content serdes.

> Cristiano Aguzzi: As if you're using your library, you can just add products and then the content type that you would like to do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cristiano Aguzzi: As if you're using your library, you can just add products and then the content type that you would like to parse and serialize. 
```

> Cristiano Aguzzi: But now the question is how you're going to serializing RDF? Which ontology you're going to use? So it's not just the content side problem is also what ontology you used to serialize down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cristiano Aguzzi: But now the question is how you're going to serialize RDF? Which ontology you're going to use? So it's not just the content side problem it's also what ontology you used to serialize.
```

> Cristiano Aguzzi: So, in principle, that Codex should not know the payload and itself like we have application/json like we don't know the structure of the JSON itself is something that is handled up up in an upper layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cristiano Aguzzi: So, in principle, that codec should not know the payload content. Like what we have for `application/json`, we don't know the structure of the JSON itself is something that is handled up up in an upper layer.
```

Cristiano Aguzzi: The conversion from the ontology down to the JavaScript objects, that's basically the problem I would say.

Justus Fries: Yeah, I would argue that triples are essentially thing that you look at when you serialize and deserialize, but maybe not.

> Cristiano Aguzzi: Yeah, but we don't have the concept of triples right when you deal in the application side, I just write the property in a right number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cristiano Aguzzi: Yeah, but we don't have the concept of triples when you deal with the application side, I just write the property with a number.
```
